# File Reversal With Multiple Modes

In this project we will see how to reverse contnents in a file using only system calls using multiple techniques like block wise reversal, full file reversal and partial file reversal.

## Description

Basically, In this we are going to solve two parts:
* One is to reverse file contents using the three above stated techniques.
* The other is to verify whether part-1.

## Detailed Program Explanation

### Question-1
* Before getting into core flag logics we should have to validate the input given by the user like number of arguments given and then create a directory if it doesn't exists and then create output file and setting up the path to the output file and then opening the input and output files and doing the operations to reverse based on the flag user entered.
* We also implement progress updater which show the percentage of file that had been processed till now using the percentage.
#### flag 0:
  * In this flag, We divide the input file into fixed blocks and then reverse the block contents and then write in the output file.
  * Each and every block id reversed individually, but the blocks remain in the same order as before like in the input file.
#### flag 1:
  * In this flag the user will give input file and flag as 1 and we need to reverse all the contents in the file, the logic is implemented so that the whole file is reversed.
  * if user provided the very large file then the code will break the file into chunks and then staart reversing contents in each file.
  * for this we read file from the last and then using helping function to reverse the contents write into the output file.
#### flag 2:
  * In this flag the user will provide input file with start index and end index.
  * Our code will reverse the contents in the file till start index and write in output file, and then write the contents from start index to end index as it is and then reverse the contents from end index to last byte of the file.
### Question-2
  * In this we need to verify the output generated by the question-1 like whether the file reversal techniques applied correctly on the input file or not.
  * User give the files as input and according to the flag the user entered we have to compare the file contents and then return output.
  * The code should also verify all the permissions given to the files and also directory in the first question.
## Getting Started

### Basic requirements:

* One should have c++ installed in their system.
* One should have good understanding of system calls(especially read(),write(),open(),close(),lseek()).
* Finally one should have basic understansing of c++ language.


### Executing program

* To run the program go to terminal and in your working directory where your files are located use the following commands:
```
  $ gcc Q1.c / g++ Q1.cpp tis will compile the code.
  $ ./a.out <input file name> <flag> [additional arguments]

  flag-0 : Block wise reversal:
  Usage: ./a.out <input file> 0 <block size>
  Then the output file will be generated in path,
  Output file: Assignment1/0 <input file name>
  flag-1 : full file reversal
  Usage: ./a.out <input file> 1
  Output file : Assignment1/1 <input file name>
  flag-2 : partial file reversal
  Usage: ./a.out <input file> 2 <start index> <end index>
  Output file : Assignment1/2 <input file name>
 ```
 
* Step-by-step execution steps for part-2 (file and permission verification)
 * In this part we will verify whether the content in the new file that was generated by part-1 follows expected reversal pattern based on the flag or not.
 * we also check all the permissions that were given to the files like read, write and execute permissions for users, group and others.
```
for output of part-2
./a.out <newfilepath> <oldfilepath> <directory> <flag> [<blockSize>|<start> <end>]
for flag 0: 5 arguments (flag 0, block_size)
for flag 1: 4 arguments
for flag 2: 6 arguments (flag 2, start_index, end_index)
```
#### Output Format for part-2

Directory is created: Yes
Whether file contents are correctly processed: Yes.

Both Files Sizes are Same: Yes

-User has read permissions on newfile: Yes

-User has write permission on newfile: Yes

-User has execute permission on newfile: No

-Group has read permissions on newfile: No

-Group has write permission on newfile: No

-Group has execute permission on newfile: No

-Others has read permissions on newfile: No

-Others has write permission on newfile: No

-Others has execute permission on newfile: No
